I’m a therapist who specializes in marriage and family counseling. I’ve studied how we form relationships across cultures and how we find value in others both friendships and romantic partners. I see dozens of couples a week. I feel qualified to at least give advice on the matter.

I see so so often people on here or in their lives claim looks don’t matter in romantic relationships. The overwhelming evidence is that they do. Now, sociological studies do not show leagues exist (people quoting the matching hypothesis haven’t actually read what they are measuring there) so it’s not some monolith even if there are some more common trends. But over and over it’s been clear the physical attraction is a pretty instant response visually. It doesn’t grow, it doesn’t get worse and it’s typically more of a yes/mo checkbox. Not so much a rating scale but most either find someone physically desireable or they do not at first glance, yes there is evidence attraction can grow with close proximity IF the baseline attraction was already present. If not then no, research has not shown it typically will. The results of all this are not surprising; humans are a species that even among mammals are incredibly visually oriented. It’s not some sin and nothing to be ashamed of. That’s not to say you should be unkind to those you don’t find appealing but we are talking about our very nature here.

Now onto the actual human practical side of it; many times I see people comment here about how if someone struggling dating they have too high of standard. Or are shooting out of their “league”. Or are unrealistic etc etc. How they should value other traits. The problem with this is that it assumes physical desire is something we control. It isn’t. And yes people do give people a shot they aren’t attracted to sometimes because they like their personality, they give stability etc. and while I genuinely believe it’s done with good intentions or fear of being alone almost inevitably this leads to hurting the person who ‘was given a chance’. I cannot tell you how many couples end up in couples counseling, with myself or others, and share this dynamic. So at our clinic we typically do a couples session, followed by individual with each, then couple then back and forth. Pretty typical. I’m not exaggerating when I say half my clients for couples therapy are there for this reason; there’s been a breakdown of some kind or another in the relationship. Maybe affection has dried up, intimacy is infrequent. Etc. and in the course of digging it things become clear; one party is fully invested and head over heels, physically and emotionally attracted to the other, while the other is emotionally attracted but admits, usually in an individual session, that they don’t find their partner physically attractive. That they love them, and their safety attracted them at first, that their humor attracted them at first but over time that hasn’t been enough and now they have trouble providing necessary affection and attention to their partner because over time they’ve realized what they’re lacking. So now what? Now we have one person who was ‘given a chance’ who truly is attracted physically and emotionally to their partner, has dedicated years of their time and energy to someone who they now get to find out, wasn’t physically attracted to them to begin with. They gave time and energy here when they could have been looking for someone who valued them not only emotionally but also desired them physically. The people (and in my anecdotal experience it’s a pretty even split between men and women) who were the ones now realizing that the need physical attraction I don’t think are inherently bad people. But accountability here is pretty objective; be honest with people and yourself. In a bid for safety, security and companionship they gave up what they needed to be satisfied and hurt someone else. That’s bad enough, but in severe cases eyes have wandered. Cheating has occurred. Even more emotionally damaging to someone who often truly believed their partner wanted them like they wanted their partner.

I know many want to say that it’s amoral to value looks in a relationship. But it is our reality. If you are respectful. If you are kind and gentle in rejection. If you are courteous in receiving rejection from those you’re attracted to. If you are kind in how you approach those you’re interested in. You are a good person in the dating realm, yes, even in admitting looks matter to you. It’s not a trade off; it’s two checkboxes. A high degree of kindness doesn’t offset a lack of physical attraction. Both boxes have to be checked. Of course we see the opposite too, a couple where one is only into their looks and not personality and that fails as well. But I’ve seen much much more of this where one gives up their physical desires assuming it’s the right choice only to find out it’s not.

And the of course the question we get. “What if I end up alone then?” A very valid concern. Most people fear it deeply. #1 it’s quite unlikely you won’t find people you desire at first glance who also desire you at first glance and who you mesh with even if it takes time. No matter how you look. #2 it is better to be alone than settle. For yourself and for the other person. That leads to hurt and heartache. Don’t do that.

A handful in another sub have commented about where that leaves ‘average’ men/women. Or ‘below average’ men or women. People;leagues do not exist. Even deep studies like the matching hypothesis note that no objective metrics of rating could be utilized because no one agreed. Yes, is there a more general trend that physical fitness is a bit more appealing to a majority? Are there some conventional traits that are cross culture? Yes-very very vaguely, but leagues don’t exist. The spring from our innate instincts to try to quantify everything in our lives, it’s a threat assessment instinct. Made worse by a society with data metrics for everything. The reality is that human attraction cannot be quantified by any study or set metric. You standards are based on what YOU are attracted to. Not what you see in your mirror. You go for those you find attractive until one says yes. That’s the only equation there is to it. Most people are not attracted to most other people. Mutual attraction is the exception not that rule. Relationships are all statistical anomalies. Stop trying to quantify your odds of success into a math problem that will never represent the human experience.