So I’ve been on dating apps for roughly about 6 months now. I’ve just turned 43, divorced with no kids. I have a job and live on my own. I don’t have GQ or super model looks but feel I’m more attractive than not. So what has my experience been? It just sucks.

So I reach out to many women per week on multiple sites and a small percentage of them answer. The ones that do only want to talk forever but never seem to want to meet. The few that I have had the opportunity to meet haven’t really gone anywhere but I was happy for the experience nonetheless.

As of this week I have spoken to a few women where all but one are no longer talking to me. Two of them stopped after I asked how’s their day. The other just shot a few messages back and nothing. The one who is still talking has been communicating for a few weeks now but I feel has ran its course. Just can’t seem to get her to commit to getting together or really actually having a conversation.

One thing I have noticed is that a lot of women are upset that men don’t seem to read their profile. With the exception one nobody has commented anything about all that I’ve said on mine. I’ve heard complaints that men will comment in a crude and sexual nature and that’s not well liked. I’ve always replied with a “hi my name is” and then something regarding their hobbies or places they’ve been per their profile and still come up short. Lastly women always say they want a man to put forth effort. As a man I have no problem putting forth effort and replying to messages in a timely fashion but with the exception of that person who commented on my profile there is no effort coming back from women.

Obviously looks are important because you have to be physically attracted to who you date but I’m surprised that it seems so hard to connect with people these days.

If anyone has had any experience with dating apps please share and/or advice on what I or others who look into this post can do?

Like you can be rejected, you can also reject. If you are talking to a woman who won’t respond to your messages, the conversation is dusty, does not seem interested in meeting you in person, or doesn’t seem interested enough in you to read your profile, you can also stop talking to them and move on.

Much like posting selfies here on Reddit or on IG and counting the Likes or Comments, I've concluded that dating apps are, today, nothing more than a source of ego boost to assuage boredom for the accounts that are not bots or scammers using harvested or AI images. The number truly looking to meet IRL are so few that you'll be paying a lot over time before the "algorithm" will connect you to them to ensure their profit margin is achieved. Do I sound like a skeptic?

I just went old fashioned the other day - went out two nights in a row and got numbers both nights and also had a great time upping my game talking to lots of stunning women. Once you get some momentum with real life mingling it’s easier to keep it rolling. Tip - don’t think of it as “picking up”, think of it as meeting humans. 


This has been my experience as well. I make a concerted effort to inquire about stuff in their profile and find something to relate with to them. Very low response rate and I find that once a match is made, I try to ask them out pretty quickly because I don’t like trying to get to know someone via text. I understand that women have to be careful about meeting in person so I might suggest a video call first. Either way, I feel it’s been a net negative overall with the effort and strain it puts on me. I have much better luck meeting women the old fashioned way.