Sometimes I think I’ve gotten too good at pretending. Not in a malicious way — just… practiced. Like when you smile a little too wide so people stop asking what’s wrong.

Roy picked me up from work today. He leaned on the horn from the parking lot like he always does, like the sound of it is somehow romantic. Everyone looked up. I laughed it off, told them “that’s my ride,” and waved, but I could feel my face getting hot. Jim smirked at me across the desk — that tiny, crooked grin he gets when something’s ridiculous but he’s too polite to say it out loud. I wanted to roll my eyes at him, but instead I just smiled back. And there it was — that electric moment, again.

The weird thing is, I don’t even know when it started. Maybe it’s been happening forever. Maybe since the first time we stayed late and he started doodling comics of Dwight in my sketchbook. I laughed so hard I snorted. He said it was the best sound he’d ever heard. I told him that was a weird thing to say. He said, “Well, I’m a weird guy.”

And it’s not like I want to like him. That would be too easy. I’m engaged. I’ve been engaged for three years. I have the dress. I have the date. The only thing I don’t have is the part where I actually feel excited about it.

Roy’s fine. He’s good, even. He’s dependable in that “he’ll probably fix the sink” kind of way. But with Jim — I don’t have to think about who I’m supposed to be. We talk about dumb stuff: bears, beets, Battlestar Galactica. I laugh until I can’t breathe. He makes me feel like maybe I could still do something bigger than ordering paper and refilling coffee.

Today, during lunch, I caught him looking at me while I was sketching. He didn’t look away fast enough. Our eyes met, and there was this second — this one single heartbeat — where everything else went quiet. And I swear, I could feel it. That pull. Like gravity. Then the phone rang and he grabbed it, all flustered, pretending to care about some invoice. I drew a tiny cartoon of him answering it with his hair on fire.

He saw it later. Wrote “accurate” underneath and slid it back to me.

I don’t know what any of this means. Maybe it doesn’t mean anything. Maybe I’m just bored, or lonely, or scared that I’m running out of time to be the person I thought I’d be. But sometimes when Jim looks at me, it’s like he sees that person — like she’s still there, waiting.

Roy called me “Pammy” in front of everyone when he came in. Jim looked down at his keyboard. I wanted to disappear. But then, as I walked out, Jim said softly, “See you tomorrow, Beesly.”

And somehow, that made everything okay.
At least until tomorrow.