I was sitting in an Uber yesterday heading to work, and my driver noticed I kept refreshing my email on my phone. I guess I looked stressed because he just asked what was going on.

I told him I was nervous about presenting an idea at work that nobody asked for. I spent my weekend working on this project because I genuinely thought it could help my team, but now I was second-guessing the whole thing. Like, what if people think I'm overstepping? What if I look like I'm trying too hard to impress people? What if it's just a bad idea?

He was quiet for a minute and then said something that I literally can't stop replaying in my head.

"You know what I realized after 20 years of driving? Most people aren't actually judging you as hard as you think they are. They're too busy worrying about themselves. But here's the thing that got me - the people who regret their lives aren't the ones who tried things and failed. They're the ones who never tried because they were too scared of looking stupid."

Then he added, "Your fear of being judged is probably someone else's fear too. And maybe they're just waiting for you to go first so they know it's okay."

I went into that meeting completely differently. I presented the idea. People didn't laugh. They actually engaged with it. Some liked it, some had critiques, but you know what? Nothing bad happened.

But the part that's really messing with me is that I realize how much of my life I'm living according to fears that aren't even mine. They're fears I picked up from other people. Fear of standing out. Fear of being too much. Fear of bothering people.

How many things have I not done just because I was carrying around someone else's anxiety about what other people think?

Has someone ever said something to you that made you realize you've been playing it safe your entire life?

It is also trickier implement than it appears we're hard wired to watch what people think of us. It was much less of a need when we lived in accordance with our basic human values and needs (hunter gatherers which was the vast majority of our evolutionary history), but in today's age we are as far removed as we have ever been from that way of life by sitting staring at a screen all day, competition / comparisons being pushed on us at work, a move towards less variety in what we do, mass consumerism etc (and corresponding rise in obesity, addictions, chronic depression / anxiety, chronic diseases, disability re back pain, sleep trouble etc). I saw a doc on it from an anthropologist that studied hunter gatherer tribes in Africa and lived with them on and off for 20 years he had fairly strong views of modern capitalistic society. I think for many of us it's now more important than ever that we pay less attention to what others say about us not that we're selfish just that we be conscious of the weight we tend to give other's views I find I have to remind myself of it.


I noticed this very consciously. Because I have a family member I live with that doesn’t allow me to speak with them. Because somehow everything I say to them triggers the person. Greeting them, banter, giving advice, everything. Always felt like thin ice being around them. Now I can’t speak to them without their permission. Can’t even greet the person.

It sucks realising the thing you have… Just to feel it more consciously and have it actually forced onto you. I’m working toward independence because it really isn’t nice living this way…